The Chugoku Military Junta, officially the Japanese Caretaker Government is a warlord state situated in the Chugoku region. Established in July 1930, the faction claims to intend to restore law, order and uncorrupt government to the country. The government is composed primarily of military figures focused on establishing control in the region and raising an army for Japan capable of purging the country of its illegal elements. 

While founded much later, the roots of the military government hail from the original Shogunate era. From the Boshin War and onwards, the modernising Shogunate government found itself increasingly focused on mass-mobilized warfare. By 1880, much of the Shogunate military structure was integrated into military academia and officer training, giving birth to a new subclass away from the more dynastic clan-dominated generalship from years prior. This new military staff, which the Shogunate consistently favoured over the more foreign-minded Navy, was fiercely militarist and built around rigid martial principles. The Japanese Shogunate Army, which was still underequipped, unprepared for WW1 era warfare and faced with a western force with naval aid, was severely bludgeoned in the 1910s. Despite fighting with superior numbers, on home ground and with a partial commitment to Western martial doctrines, they were still hit with numerous defeats that ultimately culminated with internal revolution from within their borders. Ultimately pulling the Shogunate down from within.

The lessons from this conflict did not go unlearned by the army, nor without blame. Martial understanding gradually began to develop a paranoia around the Japanese citizenry itself. World War One and the Patey Expedition showed that it was internal control that often brought about the end of an otherwise militarily healthy country. Germany’s public revolted during their dying months, likewise with Austro-Hungary, Russia, Turkey and Bulgaria. Now subservient to the Liberal Republic, under the protectorship of the United States, the army was rapidly stripped of a number of its privileges, of much of its funding and scale. The liberal government held no interest in power through military control, nor of expansionism, nor of conflict with the West. Furthermore, later years would see continued expansion of the Japanese Navy: A carnal sin in the army staff. Academies gradually became hubs for anti-liberal discussions and ultranationalist plots, culminating in dozens of cadet rebellions, assassination incidents and killings. The disconnect between the military and the actual government itself, however, continuously created a buffer that preserved the Republic and prevented a shift into militarism.

Starting in the USA, the Great Depression hit Japan further, fueling radical thoughts and dissatisfaction with the democratic system which became largely seen as ineffective. The military became more and more vocal that martial traditions would be the solution. National service potentially provides employment for young men, offering manpower for public construction projects and helping to defend the stability of the Japanese State at such times. The distrust, however, between the army and the Republic was still strong. The shogunate-era mindset in the army continued and the elected governments were more than aware of the radical ambitions of military staff. This would prove to be all for nought when in March 1930, rumours began to spread of the socialist movements in the North of Japan being in contact and aid with the Comintern. The rumours and eventual news of such events sent shockwaves through Japan and sparked counterrevolutionary riots in many places, particularly strongly in the South of Japan. Where a number of pros and anti-socialist protests and riots began to occur, primarily in the cities of Hiroshima and Shunan. The outbreak of riots and loss of government control to a declaration of martial law by local army garrisons in the region in what became known as the July Crisis.

The declaration of martial law was criticized harshly by the liberal government who had not requested such action, being followed by accusations of an attempted coup. The deteriorating situation, combined with further socialist riots in the North, led to Kazushige Ugaki gathering up a Military Government to declare a State of National Emergency. Following months would see the army cabinet demand a step down by the liberal government for the establishment of a caretaker government. 

Things didn't go as hoped.

Starting with the almost immediate response by the liberal government, declaring the military government to be both incompetent and illegitimate, the aims of the Military Junta to establish their recognized authority of Japan and organize stabilization programs fell apart. While the liberal republic had little in the way of military countermeasures, they had significant public trust across the nation (relative to the army), which they utilized by issuing a countrywide general strike. This significantly weakened the ability of the army to govern, forcing the military to concentrate their forces to major pockets where they would be able to effectively enforce their order. Effectively forcing them to consolidate in the South, with weakening ability to rule elsewhere. Further military rule elsewhere was weakened by American support for the Republic, providing a safe zone where the authority of the Liberal Republic could be maintained in the general Tokyo area. The Navy had also rejected the Military Junta declaration as a bid for power our of paranoia and jealousy by the army, and retreated to the island of Kyushu. Both to protect their own assets and isolate the island from the potentially imminent active civil war.

As the grip of the traditional authorities over Japan fell apart, new governments also began to pop up among the radical hotspots. Starting with the restoration of the Shogunate in Central Japan, severing numerous Junta strongholds in the North. Ezo had already separated in fear of the instability being brought to their shores, instead choosing to safeguard their democracy and declaring their official recognition of the Liberal Republic as the rightful regime. The communists in Northern Japan, now with only limited army power over the region, quickly began to unify and establish a proletarian pretender government in Tohoku, purging military influence entirely from the North in the following years as Communist operations. Eventually seized control of the local Bases from the isolated army holdouts.

The army was now largely in disarray. Portions of the military staff had defected to the Shogunate with their establishment, viewing the state with more legitimacy than some caretaker junta without even the recognition of the government it was meant to be taking over from. Others had stayed loyal or rejoined, the democracies in Tokyo and Ezo. Others were lost in the North. While army numbers were initially strong, they withered with the loss of civilian support during the strikes. Others defected to the socialists and fascists, who held much more ideological purpose and meaning. The restoration of the Imperial Family in Kyoto was the final, major blow to the undisputed military dominance of the Junta. Those who had left for the Shogunate were already aligned with their sort, with Samurai heritage or sympathies with the Tokugawa legacy. Many of those that remained primarily viewed the Shogunate as the illegitimate government due to their disloyalties to the Imperial Family. With the return of Emperor Hirohito in 1931, flocks of soldiers and officers alike mutinied or deserted to join restored ancient Japanese Empire.

By 1936, the Military Junta is a shadow of what it was when it first declared martial law. When they began, they had the sympathies of those with fascist, imperialist, traditionalist or state loyalties. But now these ideological reasons have faded with the Shikoku State, Kansai Imperial State, Tokugawa Shogunate and Republican governments respectively. The Junta lacks a shred of legitimacy, instead now depending on the martial discipline of unquestioning loyalty, claims that only they can counter the Communists to the North, and unprosecuted army privileges (Such as getting away with looting in many cases) to hold together an army. Yet this force lacks determination or willpower as the Fascists in Shikoku or the Imperials in Kansai do. The generals that remain are now either hoping to utilize the Junta to claim fortune and glory, have unquestioning loyalty to the army itself, or have already cashed in too many of their chips to change sides so to speak. Surrounded by powers, except the South, with more right-wing ideological legitimacy, the Junta troops cannot be expected to fight properly in their current condition. They have no reason, nor will they, shoot upon those they consider their brothers and comrades fighting for the same cause if they can avoid it.

Those that remain in the Military Junta have been serving, unless native to Chugoku, in a foreign station for over five years, with little to show for it, and will likely come into conflict with people they consider themselves to be political aligned with at any moment. If the Military Junta under Marshal Shunroku Hata is to survive, they must cure themselves of being the sick man of Japan immediately. They must find ideological legitimacy by allying with one of the many nearby right-wing powers or convincing a detente with the old Liberal Republic. Exploitative army laws must either be revised or repealed. Allowing troops to transcend the law might keep them from defecting, but it angers the locals greatly. The Junta must also set themselves on the warpath as soon as possible too, the troops grow weary and dissatisfied with the continued inaction by the generals. If something is not done soon, the increasingly strong militaries next door may stop the Junta from ever having a chance again.