The Republic of Ezo, founded in 1930. Is a unitary representative democracy founded on the island of Hokkaido following the 1930 Japanese Collapse. With the original government being established shortly after the collapse with the declaration of a military junta and the loss of control by the Provisional Republic over much of the Japanese country outside of Tokyo. Still very much under the influence of the Matsumae Clan in the region, mixed with the traditionalist Ainu communities and generally peaceful unprovoked atmosphere, Hokkaido and Ezo at large did not take strongly to Communist movements that spurred much of the Agrarian north of Japan.

Finding themselves unable to depend on the protection of the liberal government and with increasingly active communist movements across the North, the municipalities of Hokkaido opted to declare an independent government. Stating that their secession was, “In the interest of securing local democracy and defending the local interests of Ezo from political occupation.” In this way, combined with the generally low-population with minimised nationalist identity in the region, the Republic of Ezo lacks a compelling internal national spirit for independence. With most of their key government figures not coming from Ezo due to the relatively low development of the region. The country is therefore not driven by ideological nationalism, but out of strategic necessity for the protection of their democracy. Should the liberal government, or any other unifying power, therefore opt to annex or invade Ezo, the country is threatened of not having a local drive for defence or continuing their independence.

Having held their first election in March 1935, their next is expected for 1940. Tetsu Katayama’s current government is more of less politically secure, with few major other official political parties. Yet internally, the country has several problems and paths it must decide on. Firstly, the current government suits most of the electorate, centred in ethnic-Japanese southern Hokkaido. But this stands to the detriment of the influential Matsumae Samurai Clan in Southern Hokkaido, the White Russian Exiles who found sanctuary on the island long ago (Who fear of a Soviet Invasion is imminent) and the Ainu people who dislike the ethnic-Japanese domination of their own local government. These combined traditionalist elements may pose an unofficial internal threat should nothing be done to appease or dismantle them. Yet removing these elements risk leaving the Social-Democratic government on a route for reannexation by the Provisional Government once it begins to resecure Japan again. Their lack of a national identity, their primarily Pan-Japanese electorate in the South, and origins as a caretaker government until the Provisional Government returns will doom any military actions by Ezo to be half-hearted and low-morale. If this is to be countered and long-term independence is to be secure, the Republic of Ezo must boost its nationalist identity and develop themselves into more than just an undeveloped backwater with a sparsely populated landscape.

Ezo has two choices. Conceded to traditionalism, grow their local identity and build up their nationality to secure themselves for the future. Or strengthen their democratic government by removing the right-wing unofficial elements that promote potential rebellion within the country and develop the country in preparation for such events.
