The Tokyo Provisional Government, officially the Government of the Japanese Republic, is a Unitary Republic run under the system of liberal representative democracy. The territory is generally considered to be economically prosperous through foreign trade centred in Tokyo, but lacking both in a competent military structure nor a stabilized political system.

Backstory

The backdrop to the foundation of the Japanese Republic began with the eruption of war between the Entente and Shogunate Japan in July 1917. The war erupted as a consequence of the Storming of the Saratoga on the 24th of June of that same year. In which the American Cruiser USS Saratoga was stormed as part of a week-long riot in the city. Riots which were in protest of the Entente forcing the neutral Shogunate government to open their ports for naval operations. Which were aimed against the German Pacific and Far East territories. The storming of the Saratoga left most of the American crew killed in the desperate defence of the ship, with the survivors being taken onboard the nearby USS Brooklyn, which had been stationed away from the dock.

The Storming of the Saratoga caused an international incident that both obliged US President Woodrow Wilson, under public pressure, to launch a retaliatory strike against the Shogunate Government. A small expeditionary force was gathered up from American, Australian and British troops under Admiral Sir George Edwin Patey nicknamed the Patey Expedition. Which was deployed at Chiba, taking the city under naval intimidation. The Shogunate government, which was still largely unreformed, possessing an unprofessional military force, could do little to counter the seizure of Chiba.

As the First World War drew on, it became increasingly apparent that the Shogunate Government was not prepared to agree to the Entente’s demand that Chiba is ceded to the intervening nations as an international freeport. Which the Entente aimed to obtain as a Japanese harbour that they could safely garrison. As a consequence, the Patey expedition was redeployed to the coastal outskirts of Tokyo, where they began a lengthy land and naval bombardment of the Japanese city.

With the advent of total war with the Entente as the conflict spread beyond Chiba, the shogunate government attempted to open up diplomatic talks with the German Imperial government. But their efforts to communicate with the Central Powers were constantly intercepted and countered by the Pro-Entente Chinese, the warring factions in Russia or by the Entente powers themselves. This failure to arrange an allied relationship, however, did not stop the Entente from considering the Shogunate a Pro-German power. Once the war in Europe was over, the allied forces turned their attention to the Russian civil war and intervention in Japan.

While President Wilson was hesitant to provide significant interventionist aid in the Russian civil war, he was supportive of removing the Shogunate Regime from Japan in favour of liberal democracy. The European powers meanwhile, were more eager to help aid the White Russian Counterrevolutionaries than politically reforming Japan. But both factions had a mutual interest in seeing the Japanese Shogunate defeated. America as retaliation for the Saratoga, and to expand their sphere in the Pacific. While Britain and France were eager to acquire a friendly nearby port to better secure their interventionist support in the Russian Far East. The Patey Expedition, therefore, saw a tripling of its number through 1918. In which they held an occupied region stretching the coastline from Aichi to Chiba. With the major city of Tokyo occupied, constant offensive efforts ending in total defeat and the stubborn refusal of the Shogun to have simply agreed to cede Chiba made the government increasingly unpopular. With growing resentment both towards the Entente intervention and towards the Shogunate. A general revolution began, starting in the city of Kyoto. The proclaimed republic was a wish-wash liberal democracy that had been thrown into existence by a sparse different range of rebelling ideologies who had revolted for their own unique reasons. Ranging from monarchists to fledgeling socialist movements. The final nail in the coffin for the Shogunate struck when the military staff, who now had practically total control of the government, deposed the Shogun and opened up peace talks to save face and arrange amicable terms.

The Tokyo Agreement saw all of the civil and military staff of the Shogunate Government exhumed of any responsibility for the conflict and walked free without any prosecution. Chiba was to become an Allied freeport for British, French and American operations in the region, governed by a Western International Commission. With the Shogunate Government recognizing the self-proclaimed Japanese Republic as the legitimate government of the country.

Early History (Pre-Fragmentation)
With the official recognition of the new regime ruling over Japan occurring in June 1918 the Republic of Japan was officially legitimised. Acquiring membership within the League of Nations and beginning to flourish through western trade the Republic of Japan experienced a short period of stability and modernisation in the urban centres of the country. However, by 1923, the situation in Japan was deteriorating politically, with the election of Admiral Yamamoto Gonnohyōe  that year sparking increased polarisation, especially from the Army. This was further intensified in the wake of the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake. The government was quickly recalled in light of the disturbance and slow action for recovery after the earthquake, leading to a failed vote of no-confidence against Admiral and President Yamamoto Gonnohyōe. The inability of Gonnohyōe’s government to act under intense scrutiny from the Legislative Assembly and accusation by the military of naval bias in funding cuts led to President Gonnohyōe resigning within the year. Gonnohyōe’s quiet resignation outraged the naval forces of Japan who were becoming increasingly concerned with the growing corruption, stagnation and transformism politics rotting the Japanese Republic.

It was also around this time that Saionji Kinmochi, a staunch monarchist and new leader of the Rikken Seiyūkai was introduced to replace Yamamoto. But his government proved just as unstable throughout 1923. Trying to tackle rebuilding projects and spending cuts, President Seiyūkai was accused of ambitions for an Imperial Restoration, an idea he had not promised during in his political life. His honorary title of Duke and known friendship with the Imperial Pretender was notorious and, as a result, caused him to resign after two years of struggling in the political quagmire. Withdrawing from Public Life. 

The Conservative, Hara Takashi became the new Prime Minister, who immediately attempted sweeping reforms to try and adapt to the unchanging state of Japan. By this time (1924) much of Japan had come under the “Rule of Vigilantism”. That is to say, the unreliability of the government had given rise to unrecognized organised assistance of local projects, reconstructions and government. Most notably, the Samurai Clans that were still widely recognized among the rural population, the Yakuza across the outer cities, and the local military stations across the country. The proactiveness of these groups gradually drew sympathy towards them from the local populations, the further away from Tokyo you got, the less effective democratic rule had become.

Hara Takashi’s government however hindered and halted this process for a time. Handpicking new administrators for anywhere, from principals to prefecture governments, the Hara administration reintroduced meritocracy across Japan. Takahashi’s newly assigned governors, bureaucratic leaders and so on were effective. Chosen not on loyalty, but ability and these new appointments saw the government unite with the military branches too. With gradual projects to weaken the hold of the Yakuza and to restore trust in the public away from the Samurai class. Hara’s history as being born into the Samurai-class, but disowning it for the life of a civilian, had gained great public popularity. It gave him the trust of the traditionalists, from Samurai to Monarchist, but also unity among the people as a man who had wanted to experience life as a commoner. His Christian faith, however, also earned him allegations of being a liberal puppet to the West. His background of being a commoner, mixed with his hands-on approach to reforming the government, gave him the title ‘Commoner-King’. Hara had also extended bilateral relations extensively, signing preferential trade deals with the British, French and Dutch for ‘gateway’ cities. Aimed to help stimulate economic growth in their respective trade ports, which remained under Japanese governance. However, by 1926, Takashi had become increasingly unpopular both among his more-elite colleagues for unravelling previous understandings and destabilizing the stability of interparty politics. From the army for refusing several proposed expansion proposals and from the Yakuza for obvious reasons. In late 1927, Takahashi was shot dead while waiting at the local train station by a masked gunman, the motives or if the gunman was part of one of these groups is unknown.

But now the damage was done, and the different groups began to point fingers and accuse one another of political interference. The military accused the parties of corruption and killing Hara to prevent further reform. While numerous parties pointed fingers at the military, Yakuza and the growing power of the Unions in the country. It was at this same time that American Ambassador Charles MacVeagh warned the new Rikken Seiyūkai Government under Saitō Makoto that, “Unless this prevailing disorder in the Republic stops, the United States may reluctantly be duty-bound to intervene to ensure the continuation of local law and order”. The move was effectively an ultimatum that the Saitō Makoto Government must be respected and maintained or the United States would more or less be given enough reason to deploy a significant military and administrative presence. Regardless of whether or not the Americans intended for this threat to be respected or not, it wasn’t. The note itself was responded to by harsh criticism from the military staff and public alike, who saw it as a colonial threat. Saitō Makoto’s government quickly became not much more than an anti-western punching bag. His cabinet quickly (Despite some resignations), therefore, focused on curbing Western influences in the trade ports by passing legislation barring Non-Japanese Citizens from trading in Japan without a new state permit, which required a multitude of tests. His tenure also saw the breakout of the Imperial Military Academy Coup, which had festered as a result of Makoto’s past service in the Navy. Several officers declared that the democratic government was no longer fit to maintain stability on behalf of the Japanese and declared a rebellion. The army was unable to respond, with Politician and General Tanaka Giichi resigning along with several others resigning from Makoto’s cabinet. The Kenseikai Party also attempted to bargain for a coalition of Unity during this time, which quickly fell through as the situation escalated. The uprising became bogged down with inaction and disorganisation as to what to do, and which regiments were siding with who, with the Admiralty threatening to aid efforts to curb the army. In the face of an all-out civil war, Saitō Makoto resigned and called fresh elections in a bid to satiate the opposition groups.

The fall of the Makoto Administration months into its existence, along with the military standoff however gave more than enough reason for the Americans to step in. In September 1928, the 1,000-Man United States Japan Garrison was reinforced by an additional 17,000 fresh American troops who promptly occupied many of Japan’s large coastal cities. America additionally declared that the Ryukyu islands, which had formerly been under de facto control by the US Navy, to be integrated as a Federated Overseas Territory under the Guam administration. With the support of the former Entente powers of France and Britain, who contributed an additional combined force of 32,000 French, British, Indochinese, Australian, New Zealander and Indian troops to the occupation. Who promptly declared that each of their respective trade cities was now placed under the protective administration of localised diplomatic commissions. Without a government, and essentially in a state of chaos, no resistance was made except the Japanese membership walking out of the League of Nations Emergency Meeting on the subject. Declaring their withdrawal from the organisation. However, by late 1929, all of the intervening powers along with the Japanese Republic had been hit by the Great Depression.

Late History
The Great Depression sent shockwaves through Japan throughout late 1929 and early 1930. It saw the Japanese Economy collapse inwards as a result of large international debts, the withdrawal of assets from international investors in urban areas, and major commercial interdependence on the United States. Once the crisis had taken place, it was only a matter of time before the withdrawal of the International garrison in Japan. In a bid to try and control the presence of industry, some local governments attempted early damage control through nationalization efforts in some of the cities more commercially dominated by foreign enterprises. But as the British, French and American forces began to withdraw through 1930, limiting their presence to their respective trade ports, Japan was left effectively vulnerable to political infighting.

The newly-formed government as the successor to Makoto’s government was now established following a new election that saw the Rikken Seiyūkai party elected into power on promises of government economic intervention, Takahashi Korekiyo became the new President. Based on the manifesto of further nationalization, unnecessary budget cuts and public projects. This sparked international panic over a loss of commercial assets in Japan. With a small and unreliable army as their only potential opposition, the Dutch opted to immediately dispatch a small intervention to Hirado. Where the country held a significant private commercial interest in. The Dutch deployed, under their East Indies Fleet, 800 marines to secure the city, which they did so without any meaningful opposition. Reacting with an outcry, the Japanese Republic failed to garner any international interest in the move by the Dutch. Except for notes by the British, Danish and Mexicans to the Netherlands warning that further expansion into Japan would both stand to the detriment of the stability of both Japan and the Netherlands. The Korekiyo Administration was forced to negotiate with the Netherlands. Reaffirming Japan’s nominal control over the city, with the Dutch control all practical measures of government within the city. Aside from this incident, Korekiyo’s government was effective in helping to counter the Great Depression, stabilizing the situation to some degree and beginning to allow Japan to bounce back.

However, in March 1930, the country entered a new crisis. As news began to arrive that Soviet intelligence groups were active in Hokkaido, and helping to embolden, arm and teach Japanese Agrarian Communists in the North. The controversy of these rumours spread through the country and triggered the July Crisis. In which, following a series of riots in Hiroshima and Shunan, the local military declared a state of Martial Law in the region. Unpermitted by the government, the central Tokyo government accused the military of attempting to instigate a coup. In response, the Navy relocated their naval forces to the city of Tobata, cutting off the military from any effective presence in Satsuma. The Navy and Army were now effectively in a standoff with one and other, with maritime forces assuming control over much of Satsuma. Likewise, Japanese commanders, under the recognized command of Kazushige Ugaki, declared that the State of Emergency was underway and that the military was placing the country under lockdown to restabilize the economy and ensure protection from external and internal attacks. The local government in Ezo, in response, declared an Independent State. Believing the unified republic government to be all but lost. 

Around this same time, President Takahashi was requesting international aid to halt the military takeover. Arguing that the limited Japanese control over their own army regulation and administration both caused the situation and unofficially meant that the Western Powers had accepted it upon themselves to protect Japan. While the French and British more or less ignored the request, the Americans agreed to safeguard the Republic. Sending out their Chiba garrison to protect the capital and the surrounding army, the US sent a further 5,400 to reinforce this safe zone. But crisis-riddled America was both too internally hectic and militarily weak to execute any restoration campaign. As a result, the elected government had little more jurisdiction than from Chiba to Gunma.

The regions of Japan throughout 1930 consequently were left to fend for themselves. As the military began to move North-East, other interest groups began to leap onto the panic. In Shikoku, Adachi Kenzō gathered the support of the local governments to declare a pretender cabinet on the island. Accusing Takahashi and previous governments of weakness, corruption, inactivity and blind sightedness to Westerners and Private Businesses. In December, the city of Nagoya came under the control of an alliance of politicians led by Hiranuma Kiichirō which advocated for the restoration of a Military-Shogunate state. The fledgeling resurgent shogun government quickly began to spread in the jurisdiction as numerous regional governments influenced by the dominate Samurai-class that still entrenched itself through Japan compelled a great deal of central Japan into siding with the “Samurai Cabinet”. To restore order, end corruption and bring back tradition to the reforming country. In February 1931, the government would lose control in the North with the proclamation of the Tohoku Peasant Republic. Provided with Soviet arms to help raise a People’s Guard, the local Socialist and Communist movements throughout the North began to attempt a series of local government coups across Japan. Crushed throughout the South, and meeting very little popularity in Ezo, the 1931 Communist Uprising found the most success in the defenceless North of the mainland. Where the Pro-Socialist Communist population took up arms and overwhelmed their opposition. The final party to throw their hat into the ring was the Imperial Pretender Government. Which arrived out of exile from British Osaka. Emperor Hirohito had gained the promise of allegiance from the local Kyoto government and surrounding municipalities, which were formerly under military rule. However, they and many military garrisons quickly swayed allegiance from the military command to the returning Showa government. Forming the Showa Regnum to the South of Tokyo.

Left in tatters throughout this crisis. The Republic’s government fell through with yet another resigned cabinet. Resolved to safeguard the nation from chaos, the United States reorganized the Republic via the formation of a new Provisional Government decree. Defended by the extended American forces under the command of General Douglas MacArthur, a coalition government of Emergency Unity was formed with American pressure. The Rikken Seiyūkai, Kenseikai and Seiyūhontō parties formed a new administration, led by President Wakatsuki Reijirō (Kenseikai). The new administration focused on economically rebuilding Tokyo and the surrounding environs, removing the Gold Standard, halting inflation and cracking down on radicalist influences within the region.

Since then, the provisional government once more finds itself at a standstill. The original coalition government is soon to end, with fresh elections scheduled for early 1936. President Wakatsuki Reijirō is relatively liberal, taking a Pro-West stance and focused on helping to economically improve the position of Japan. He is respected by liberals for his government projects and respect to the democratic process. However, his opposition is large. With General MacArthur expressing concern back to Washington of Reijirō’s inaction to reunifying Japan nor military build-up, the Rikken Seiyūkai believes his projects are endangering the markets with government control, and the radicals accuse him of corruption due to his dealings with Mitsubishi Zaibatsu. Whatever the case, the 1936 Republic Elections promises to be decisive in the future path of the Provisional Government.