The Imperial State of Kansai, officially proclaimed as the Empire of Japan is a pretender government for the mantle as the rightful Japanese State in 1936. Headed by Emperor Hirohito, the faction aims to restore the Imperial Monarchy to the entirety of Japan.

The Imperial Yamato Dynasty holds claim to being among the oldest Royal Dynasties and is likely the oldest extant dynasty in the world. It, therefore, came as a great surprise that the Imperial Family’s position was thrown into jeopardy when they threw their support in with the losing side of the Boshin War. Backing the reactionary Samurai and Officials that dominated their court, the Imperial Family’s decision would prove of great help to the reactionaries, who gained extensive support among the population. They also greatly utilized modern western weaponry as a counter to the Shogunate’s own modern weaponry and mass-mobilization tactics. Backed with British funding and aid, the Imperials held their ground with Gaul and devotion. This proved to be, however, insufficient to counter the more modernised and well-equipped Shogunate forces that eventually defeated the rebellion.

With their defeat on the brink, the Imperials were faced with two options. Disgrace themselves and their legitimacy in the face of surrender, whether that be an official surrender or one disguised in white peace. Or refuse to recognize the Shogunate government from the safety of exile, banking on the infinity of time to bring them back once more to the warm shores of their homeland. With the British promise of asylum and protection by the Royal Navy, the inner circle of the Imperial Dynasty took flight for what would become their six-decade-long asylum from Japan.

During this time, the Imperial Family was given plenty of time to contemplate, consolidate and plan on their future and their approach. The years went by with initially little change. Japan continued to modernise as it had been, and while the Imperial Family was remembered, their loss was met with little jeopardy to the continuation of the Shogunate. The extended Imperial Family was not, in fact, persecuted by the Shogunate. Most of the distant Imperial Family continued to live in Japan, with some exiles returning to their home isles, others joining the exiled Imperial Government in residence on British soil. This period was a great influence on Emperor Meiji and his court as they resided in Osborne House, Queen Victoria’s Holiday Estate, they came to adapt numerous aspects of British Imperialism into their own policies and plans for a return. Meiji started to propose and write to numerous Western Statesmen and Rulers of a potential Japanese Imperial return leading to a new state fashioned on a British Constitutional Parliamentary Democracy that would serve as a prime counterweight to Russian influences in the region and an ally to a Western Ally, British or otherwise. As the decades passed on, other opinions for a Royal Path for return and success began to pop up among the numerous family members and branches.

Emperor Meiji’s death came just years before the fall of their Shogunate nemesis. With the Entente intervention in the islands towards the end of, and shortly after, the First World War. Hopes skyrocketed for Taishō and the Royals for an Imperial Restoration, and everything indicated that this would be the case. British authorities, who made up a large portion of the intervention force, confirmed that they would support an Imperial restoration in some fashion, and the Japanese public was still largely unopposed to a return of the Monarchy. However, a series of factors ultimately halted these aspirations dead in their tracks.

Firstly, American involvement in the conflict under the Wilson administration was highly sceptical of Imperial restoration. The American government believed that restoring one reactionary absolutist government with another historically absolutist government would convey no geopolitically consistent message for America and seem contradictory after supporting the removal of multiple European monarchies so recently. Secondly, the killing blow to the Shogunate government was not from the Entente intervention but rather from a series of revolutionary outbreaks across the country in opposition to the Shogun’s reign. Among these rebellions were numerous Royalist revolts, but there were also many anarchist/socialist revolutions and many more liberal putsches in the urban areas. This made the revolutionary coalition quite hostile to the prospect of a full Imperial Restoration, something that would antagonize a full breakdown of the new union. Instead, the Entente and revolutionary government agreed to the formation of a Liberal Representative Democracy under a Republican system modelled on the American and German Constitutions. What became Royal’s potentially only chance at restoration was lost just like that.

More and more years passed by under the Japanese Republic, there seemed to be little interest by the major parties to take to a position of Monarchism. Even notorious friends of the Imperial family either did not attach their manifestos to the subject of the Imperial Family or found themselves far too criticized by the opposing political parties for them to survive in any serious political role for too long. This time also saw waning British influence across the world, including Japan, forcing the UK to take a more defensive and consolidative policy as America itself, while mostly isolated, still played an active role as a benefactor to the Republic of Japan. The years of prosperity in the Japanese Republic were not equalled by the years of instability, often flip-flopping between the two. The Imperial Family, now ruled by Hirohito, saw a renewed hope of restoration as the Republic eventually gave way to the numerous dissenters across the political wings. Collapsing into anarchy in the midst of the Great Depression in 1930, Hirohito made his secret plans to launch an attempt a reunifying Japan under his guidance. Months passed by with little action, many royals feared that not taking the initiative would lead to losing their chance for restoration as they did in the 1910s. But Hirohito continued to wait until he received word from the British government that they were prepared to provide initial aid for a Royal Pretender Government to be established. In January 1931, the Imperial Family left via Southampton dockyards with minimal pomp and attention onboard the HMS Rodney and several other ships.

After a brief period of travel, the inner Imperial Family departed from their transportation in British Osaka. Setting foot on Japanese soil after decades of exile, Hirohito would later note this return being accompanied with, “The feeling of one hundred and twenty emperors depending upon the decisions I would make onwards”. Being greeted by Sir Francis Oswald Lindley, ambassador to Japan and representative of British Osaka, the Royalist Government were escorted by a local volunteer force and British garrison troops North-East from the city towards the Republic-controlled city of Kyoto. Stopping in places like Takatsuki, Shimamoto and Nagaokakyō during their approach to rally supporters in short monarchist speeches, hosting pledges of loyalty to the returned Emperor and inciting awe at the return of the Imperial Dynasty, promising a restabilization and renewed independence for Japan. Halfway through this journey, the British escort was given the all-clear to seize and return to Osaka. Having given provisions for the Monarchist army, Monarchist loyalists were armed and hastily trained as they progressed from settlement-to-settlement on the path to Kyoto.

The Imperial arrival at Kyoto in mid-February 1931 came with great success for the royalty. The provisional government was still in little position to exert authority over regions so far from their effective jurisdiction, Kyoto was found with military garrisoning and only a meagre volunteer militia force to defend it. Imperial officials would later consider it a miracle that the nearby military junta government had stalled themselves to never make for the ancient city, for there would’ve been no resistance by the Republic. The local Kyoto government made no efforts to halt the monarchist arrival, and even welcomed the Imperial arrival as a sign that good fortunes for Japan were returning. Proclaiming a new official government for Japan under the Imperial Family, Hirohito took effective control of the loyalist towns and Kyoto he had acquired on his expedition, with following months primarily consisting of venturing out into other nearby settlements to acquire the support and aid of the other surrounding environs. The local municipalities almost unanimously pledged their support for the Emperor, with the population rejoicing at the hope of a force that promised they would not abandon the locals to warlord occupation as the Republic had slid into doing. Britain continued to vocally offer their support for the Imperials in the form of control of Japanese waters on behalf of the Imperial nation until the Invergordon Mutiny in September prompted the British to retract their naval commitments in the region.

By 1932, the Imperial Government in Kyoto had consolidated their strength by acquiring the support of many of the defenceless or fringe settlements of the Japanese Republic, Military Junta and Tokugawa Shogunate. The latter of which loomed as a very present threat to the Imperial Government. The proximity of such bitter enemies became the biggest problem on the agenda of the Imperial regime. Skirmishes began to regularly break out between the two throughout the year, threatening to prompt the Military Junta to fly in from the West and overwhelm the largely paramilitary Royalist force. This potential crisis, however, was missed as a result of growing hostilities between the Maritime Junta and Military Junta coinciding at the time.

The rest of the year and 1933 was spent consolidating the Imperial domains. Hirohito instituted a series of government reforms aiming to turn what had previously been an absolutist 1-man show into a proper contender for a practical Japanese government. Hirohito abided by many of Meiji’s proposals for a new Imperial Japanese Regime. Officially founding what would become known by the West as the Japanese Duma or Imperial Assembly. A legislative body of factional officials partially selected by local communities in decadal elections and partially appointed by the sovereign would propose bills that would then be voted upon to be put before the Emperor, who would then either pass the bill or push it back to the assembly for revision after a one-year “freezing” period.

Emperor Hirohito also instituted new efforts to train the Imperial Army, gradually becoming more rigid and disciplined as numerous officers and naval officers defected with their troops, equipment and ships to the Kyoto government. In 1933, the Imperial Government numbered around 13,000 men. By 1934, it totalled approximately 36,000 troops. With more arriving from beyond the Imperial territories. Defecting naval vessels also began to arrive, most notably the Haruna, which arrived when they were sent out independently for patrol exercises by the Naval Junta.

1935 was further spent with Imperial planning and steady growth of strength. Japanese patrols continue to desert their warlords to the South to join the Imperial claimants. Citizens, bureaucrats and politicians likewise travel via the seas and land to join the Imperial Government over time to offer their support for the Emperor in his quest to unify the Japanese Empire. 

But not all is well as promising. Now in 1936, the situation of the numerous factions in the region is reaching a fever pitch. The Imperial Government may soon overtake the Shogunate and Military Junta in strength, potentially forcing them to strike the Imperial Government before its accelerating military strength may take off. Internally, most of the public is content with Imperial rule, but among the masses lurk determined dissidents. Anarchists, Republicans and Assassins alike threaten the Imperial Family. The political system also is unsatisfactory to both ideological groups. With democratic elements calling for the integration of a more democratic system, while others call for a restored commitment to the autocratic rule. Numerous other branching opinions on how to approach Japanese reunification also exist among the Imperial Court. Causing dispute, confusion and aimlessness for Hirohito’s government. 

The Ancient Faction (古代派, Kodai-ha) advocate for a pragmatist approach. Arguing that the Imperial Dynasty will have a far better chance at an easy restoration by reconciling with the Shogunate in favour of a united front to restore the joint Imperial-Shogunate rule over Japan. Presumably requiring one to become subservient to the other and requiring a shift in foreign support from Britain to France. The other factions strongly oppose this concept, however, warning it will result in the same weaknesses that brought Japan to its easy collapse to outside forces prior and will simply turn the Emperor into a sign of legitimacy for the Shogun in the end.

The Democracy Faction (民主主義派, Minshu shugi-ha) believe that the natural flow of democracy in the modern world is to provide individual political power to the citizens of Japan as the most effective means of combating radicalisation and internal strife. They push for reconciliation with the Liberal Republic in the form of an olive branch offering a union between the two factions. The Democracy Faction advocates for the introduction of universal male suffrage, the restriction of Imperial Powers and distancing from Imperialist Democracy Models such as Britain in favour of the USA in a bid to acquire their blessing for unification with the Tokyo Government. The other factions staunchly oppose this position as selling out the traditions and powers of the Emperor to acquire American support and governance over Tokyo. While also potentially dooming any subsequent Imperial Government to the same institutional weaknesses that allowed Japan to collapse in the first place.

The Imperial Faction (帝国派, Teikoku-ha) support the continued middle-way direction of the Imperial regime. Aiming to reform the Imperial Assembly under a similar constitution to that of the Kingdom of Italy while also aiming to forge some form of alliance with the British to give the aid and provisions to bolster the Japanese Army, Air Force and Naval development. They seek to crack down on radicalist threats to the Imperial Family and government and a no-kowtowing approach to reunifying Japan. They plan on using the legitimacy on the Emperor to try and instigate mass desertions of neighbouring factions militaries to bolster their own and seeking to convince the Naval Junta to come under the thumb of Imperial Rule once more by diplomacy or by causing a mutiny among the largely conservative naval forces.

Overall the Imperial Japanese Government is in a comfortable internal position. But their geographically surrounded position matched by their militaristic neighbours and rapid catch-up rate may soon provoke an unofficial alliance between their neighbours to dismantle the Imperial territories via joint invasion. Their government system is largely tolerated but is far from efficient and smooth, and a faction must be backed if the government is to direct itself properly to achieve anything.