The Kyushu Navy Junta, sometimes known as the Japanese Maritime Government, is one of the warlord states controlling Southern Japan and holding most of the island of Kyushu. Founded in the weeks after the Army declared martial law in March 1930, the Naval Junta was established in a counterrevolutionary move to curb the military takeover.

Years before the 1930 Japanese Collapse saw great turbulence for the Japanese Navy. Before the 1910s, the Shogunate had consistently been a land-favouring power (Being effectively a pro-army military junta). Even during their era of modernisation, the navy saw limited reform. With the construction of dozens of steamships and gunboats, yet nothing that could stand up to Russian maritime power at the time, mostly contesting with the modernising Qing navy at best. This lack of interest in naval supremacy often frustrated much of Japanese politics. Having a navy was essential to military expansion for Japan, which was something the Shogunate was more than vocal about doing. Yet this stubbornness to help empower and modernise the Admiralty prevented any expansion into Asia and led to the downfall of the Shogunate in the 1910s. When the Shogunate was effectively dismantled by a minor side-show army sent by the Entente. Allied usage of naval superiority prevented the Navy from being used effectively and turned any Shogunate defence of coastal communities into mostly a turkey-shoot, dependent on coastal gunnery as their main mode of defence.

The removal of the Shogunate Government and replacement with a western modelled government, therefore, saw the Admiralty become the main-supported branch of the military for its early age. The Republic was deeply suspicious of the military due to their tendency to support ultra national policies and pro-Shogunate sympathies. Yet the navy was not much better, typically being conservative and wishing to emulate British colonial success through a restoration of the Imperial Monarchy and a return to expansionist doctrines, they were far from a reliable defendant of the Republic. Yet the creation of the Republic did give them an increase in influence. As the country began to quickly modernise, governments such as that of Yamamoto Gonnohyōe saw increasing respect for the Navy and its importance. Combined with major public employment programs during the Great Depression, the Japanese Republic successfully increased their naval ability greatly with a total of 1 Carrier, 7 battleships, 15 heavy and light cruisers, 23 Destroyer-Escorts, 73 destroyers, 22 torpedo-boats, 10 gunboats and 40 submarines. This size gave them significant prestige and power in Japan, much to the ire of the army and most pacifist elements of democracy.

By the time of March 1930, the Japanese Admiralty was generally the most loyal branch of the military. With the army detesting the Republic due to their passive inaction regarding corruption, lack-of-expansionism and refusal to raise the army budget. Years prior saw countless military academy rebellions, political assassinations by young radical officers and Comintern support for the Communists in Northern Japan. The Military finally pounced when news of the latter came into national awareness, with a declaration of nationwide martial law in July. The liberal republic, however, refused to accept the declaration and accused the army of launching a coup. The declaration of the coup met with widespread army support across the country, but the refusal of the Republic to surrender focused the ability of the army to command units mostly to the South, where the new military government was acting from. For the navy, the declaration was a disaster. Ezo had split off from the rest of the control as the Republic lost its ability to control the countryside beyond the outskirts of Tokyo. The navy, therefore, took action into their own hands with the looming threat of their naval stations being seized by the military, the Admiralty under Isoroku Yamamoto ordered all naval squadrons to relocate to the city of Tobato. The main city on the strait between Kyushu and Honshu. Much of the navy joined the Junta at the city, including much of the Admiralty who used the navy to reach the region in safety. Yet notable portions did not arrive. Those stationed in Tokyo effectively remained under local control under orders by the US Naval Station Chiba to hold a lockdown on naval activity in the immediate waters. Other smaller stations either did not receive the orders or opted to refuse them on the orders of their ship’s officers in favour of their personal ideological leanings.

Kazushige Ugaki, the general who had triggered the ripple of martial law declarations, and his Southern army began an extensive standoff with the navy between Chugoku and Kyushu. The naval quickly came to spread their control across the island, finding Tobato to be in danger of long-range artillery or aerial attack. At the same time, the navy began to develop its mainland control. Otherwise limited to marine garrisons along the coastline, the Naval Junta started to train up paramilitary militias local to their local communities to establish some form of an actual army. Yet as they spent more and more time developing their defence, the situation became more difficult to restore order across Japan. Leading to a strategic standstill by the warlord states in the South for years to come.

Standstill became stalling, and stalling became stagnation. Naval reluctance to surrender their self-control to the Showa-Regnum, who the low-ranking officers hold overwhelming support for, threatens to lead to a major naval mutiny against the Naval Junta. The nature of the maritime state also leaves the faction at a huge detriment. Lacking a significant and competent army staff nor the local resources to domestically produce the required components and commodities to run their sheer naval numbers. Isoroku Yamamoto is a respected admiral with plenty of knowledge in naval combat but is no politician, lacking public following. The lack of ideology behind the Navy, especially with their reluctance to join the Monarchists, also limits their combat effectiveness. Things must immediately change if the Naval Junta is to survive, let alone thrive, in the upcoming years.