The Shikoku State, officially referring to itself as the Government of the Japanese Empire, is a Fascist regime fashioned around Mussolini’s Italian State and, to a lesser extent, Hitler’s Germany. Originally established in October 1930, the earliest rumbles of the Fascist Spring in Japan owe themselves to its Shogunate past. The nature of Japanese history and its mixture into a modernising world saw the growth of its militarist principles into an army-dominant nation.

Even with the disintegration of the Shogunate institution in 1919, these militarist ethics did not dissipate. The army became the hotbed to this state of mind, splintering into the numerous principles of the far-right that took effect throughout the Interwar period. Ultranationalism, militarism, corporatism and so on began to develop. Initially within the military, and then beginning to flood the population, these ideas became increasingly popular among the anti-western elements of Japanese society. With the rise of Benito Mussolini’s Fascists in the 1920s, the blackshirt movement quickly became a notorious force in Europe. It would take years before the shockwave would hit Japan, but eventually, the effects were felt.

Fascist ideas were the perfect ideological model for many ultranationalists who also sought to blame mass privatisation, corruption and the libertarian ideals of America for Japan’s woes. While remaining opposed to the anti-state, anti-traditions, anti-spiritualist principles of the Communist movements that had already supplanted themselves into Japanese politics. By the late ’20s, Fascism had become a very real idea for many Japanese groups. Years on, amongst the Great Depression, a series of regional fascist and ultranationalist organisations began to take influence and organise anti-Marxist actions. The Black Dragon Society was among them. Yet despite all the clamour and ripe conditions for the formation of a party catering to the numerous pockets of fascist sympathy in Japan, no party would be founded throughout the existence of Liberal Era.

Things would change in July 1930, with the collapse of Japan into internal turmoil. A combination of fascist and socialist rallies, marches and riots in Japan had instigated martial law in the country, spiralling into a standoff between the liberal government and its military. Amidst the chaos, regions began to take ideological sides or fall into a state of helplessness, devoid of protection from their official governments. This created a habitat perfect for the creation of the organisation of a Fascist government.

In October 1930, with Southern Japan falling to glory-driven military staff, Ezo detaching itself from the chaos, Northern Honshu riddled with local military warlords and communist insurgencies, and Central Japan in the flimsy control of the Republic, the revolution began. Adachi Kenzo, a political figure that had previously served in several cabinet positions in past Republic governments, gathered a cadre of supportive political and societal figures to the city of Matsuyama, on the island of Shikoku. The island itself had previously been isolated from the infighting, instead of left to dread upon what its fate would be. With strong pre-standing conservative ties and staunch opposition to the red menace, the region was no hotbed to kickstart a new Fascist state, but was without any pre-standing occupation, par a handful of army garrisons.
Kenzo, with the aid of a band of supporters from the Black Dragon Society, friends from the army, other politicians, locals, and die-hard fascists from Tokyo, marched on the Matsuyama Castle Square. One they reached the location, a rally was held declaring a new cabinet intent on restoring the power of the state and the essence of the nation to Japan. The speech gathered moderate support but was left purposefully vague due to both the lack of organisation and the variety in fascist ideologies among the founding members of this new government and army.

Adachi’s pretender government started with next to no recognition beyond the city and a couple of dozen men to call an army. But the city itself accepted the newly enforced government from the putsch and its proposed plan to restore local control, safety and future stability for Japan. A day in, the Kokumin Dōmei Party was formed to encompass the fascist group and their government. Yet the direction of the party remained aimless. Kenzo however, did begin to decree numerous government reforms and policy changes, recruiting local volunteers from the city to begin assuming authority across the island. Yet as Kenzo’s new government became increasingly clear, fascist divisions became more and more noticeable. Seigō Nakano, Kenzo’s biggest rival for leadership, became concerned that the Fascist government was attempting to remove him from the picture with diplomatic roles to be sent abroad to seek foreign fascist aid.

After two years of effort, the Shikoku State was fully installed into Fascist control. Yet only with temperate fascist support for its government, with most citizens generally being moderate conservatives of uninterested farmers. They had gathered a notable fascist paramilitary to be combined with a small but steady trickle of radicalist deserters from the army and navy juntas. Generalissimo Kenzo now finds himself, years on, facing a potential collapse of his state from its own weakness. A lack of a fanatical following, combined by his rather progressive mandate often being blocked by the ultraconservative fascists, something must soon change. The Shikoku State is relatively weak compared to all its neighbours, something the Generalissimo is both aware of and demoralised by. The Fascists will have to be wise and careful if they are to flourish under these circumstances.

In such times, the biggest strength of Fascism is the commitment of its followers, who are prepared to carry out the will of the state to the end. Kenzo must remove his rivals and get his own house in order first, or be removed by his rivals. Policies will then need to be instituted, with Kenzo wanted progressive changes such as increased rights and protection laws for women and a Fascist voting system for the general population, which is backed by figures such as Ikki Kita. Other cabinet members like Seigō Nakano, Ryōhei Uchida and Marshall Masahiko Amakasu want to restore a hardline traditionalist anti-west Fascist state with samurai ethics.
Whatever the case, the Shikoku State finds itself as the weakest runt of the regional litter in 1936, and much must be done if it is to be saved from this mess as things near their crescendo across the islands.
