The foundations of Japan’s story into the Second Sengoku begins when the Shogunate of Japan was first founded over a millennia ago. Their ancient origins ties with their relationship with the Emperor. For centuries, the common theme of the Emperor-Shogun relationship was consistently dominated by the Shogun. With the Emperor filling little more than a ceremonial role, with some exceptional rulers from time to time.

However, by 1852, things were set to change. The Shogunate had seen Japan isolate itself, abandoning any chance of their ability to advance in tandem with the growing Western presence in Asia. So Japan found itself in a blind panic when Commodore Matthew Perry arrived from a country known as the United States of America. His expedition demanded the establishment of trade and commercial enterprise within Japan from America, an act that quickly also drew major pressure by the European world to open up. With a sickly Shogun in power and an indecisive elite, Japan opted to fully open itself to international trade, tempered by a heavy-handed control by the Shogunate over the spread of Western ideas and religion. This process of steady reform, trade and commerce gradually began to create a rift within Japan over its path. By 1868, many members of the Samurai class and Imperial Court expressed strong opposition to the modernization process of Japan.

The growing dissatisfaction eventually led to Tokugawa Yoshinobu, the ruling Shogun of the time, to agree to the growing reactionary demands to halt the growing Western influence. Initially beginning with virtually unnoticeable developments of coastal fortifications and military forces, and eventually leading to all-out opposition to the West, Shogunate Japan eventually cut itself off from Western trade once more. Except for its major coastal cities, which it opened as gateway cities. The reforms appeased the reactionary Imperial and Samurai clamourers but left Shogunate Japan once more in the rut of gradually weakening to the ever-advancing technological might of the outside world. The reforms, however, did not stop this dissidence entirely. beginning the Boshin War, a brief but bloody war, in which the Emperor, backed by reactionary Samurai and Courtiers, attempted to force the dissolution of the Shogunate. The war saw involvement from the European powers, with the French funding, supporting and arming the Shogun’s forces and the British giving limited supply aid to the Imperial faction.

Despite not holding much patriotic backing, the Shogunate was able to prevail in the Boshin War through its swift, early successes. Also being a result of the apology of the Shogunate and compensation to the British for the Namamugi Incident which helped to quash western hostility towards the Shogun’s cause for a time. The Shogun generally respected French aid in the war, following Léon Roches defensive plans for the Japanese. Shogunate employment of militia conscription and material support from Europe aided their position greatly, eventually resulting in the quashing of the Imperial insurrection and the exile of the Imperial government out of disappointment and frustration at their losses. Being given haven in the United Kingdom as the Shogun started to remodel itself into a new, pseudo-monarchical role with martial characteristics.

Following decades saw Shogunate Japan slowly introduce newer and newer weaponry. Steamships, riflery, railroads slowly seeped into the partially isolated Japan. But at too slow of a rate, always one step behind the rest of the world. Japanese culture continued to remain staunchly isolationist and distrusting of Western ideas, which became viewed as decadent or subversive. These gave the perfect conditions for a Japan, once-more stagnated, that was ripe for a catastrophe of some sort once more. Things reached a fever pitch in 1917 when, despite several extremely reactionary rebellions in gateway cities since the Shogun’s reforms, riots began to break out in Chiba during the midst of World War One. Chiba had historically served as a gateway city. But was also doubling as a naval station for American operations against Central Powers colonies in the Far East; particularly Qingdao. While the naval presence was light, owing to the minuscule threat the German colonies presented, the forced foreign naval stationing at Chiba outraged much of Japan. The Japanese in the city, who still held a strong xenophobic attitude, eventually broke out into rioting in June 1917.

The Chiba Riots of June 1917 were particularly volatile. With poor management by law enforcement and large numbers leading to numerous western commercial properties in the city being attacked and destroyed. Hundreds of Western tradesmen, sailors or even Japanese citizens associated with Western commerce, were brutalized or killed. Most damning was the Storming of the Saratoga. In which hundreds of rioters swarmed the docked American Cruiser the USS Saratoga in the late evening of the 24th of June. The sailors were ill-equipped for such a situation and could not get the ship moving before the vessel had been boarded. The desperate defence of the Saratoga and the eventual evacuation of its survivors by the USS Brooklyn drew massive media attention to the situation and sparked outrage against Shogunate Japan from the Entente powers. From this point on, the Shogunate was effectively doomed to involvement.

The Entente sent, shortly after the incident, an expedition of troops under George Edwin Patey, nicknamed the Patey expedition. During this time, the Shogunate refused to accept the Entente demands of fully surrendering their jurisdiction over Chiba, opting to try and endure the assault and drive them back to the sea. With little to no contact with the Central Powers, Japan continued to be in open hostilities with the Entente even after World War 1 had ended in Europe. With the Entente expedition tripling in size as the years drew on, they soon began to seize more and more of the coastal territories around Tokyo, and even Tokyo itself. Before the war, a growing intellectual element within the Shogunate had begun pressuring for greater reforms and modelling on Western governing models in response to the slow ability of the Shogunate to modernise and adapt since the reform crisis decades before. With the progression of the War of the Shogunate, this opposition group rapidly spread in scale and reach as the population became increasingly frustrated by constant Shogunate defeats and unwillingness to agree to Entente conditional surrender demands. The situation eventually culminated in the Kyoto Revolution of 1918. The revolution was an umbrella movement of pretty much every group with a problem with the Shogun, ranging from the Imperials to the Socialists. Faced with total collapse and with advancing Entente marine divisions, the Shogunate agreed to a deal with the Entente. 

The Tokyo Agreement saw all of the civil and military staff of the Shogunate Government exhumed of any responsibility for the conflict and walked free without any prosecution. Chiba was to become an Allied freeport for British, French and American operations in the region, governed by a Western International Commission. With the Shogunate Government recognizing the self-proclaimed Japanese Republic as the legitimate government of the country. With that, the Shogunate ended. The subsequent years, labelled as the Republican Era, would see Japan’s most turbulent political climate in recent times and pave the way for its internal collapse.

With the official recognition of the new regime ruling over Japan occurring in June 1918 the Republic of Japan was officially legitimised. Acquiring membership within the League of Nations and beginning to flourish through western trade the Republic of Japan experienced a short period of stability and modernisation in the urban centres of the country. However, by 1923, the situation in Japan was deteriorating politically, with the election of Admiral Yamamoto Gonnohyōe  that year sparking increased polarisation, especially from the Army. This was further intensified in the wake of the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake. The government was quickly recalled in light of the disturbance and slow action for recovery after the earthquake, leading to a failed vote of no-confidence against Admiral and President Yamamoto Gonnohyōe. The inability of Gonnohyōe’s government to act under intense scrutiny from the Legislative Assembly and accusation by the military of naval bias in funding cuts led to President Gonnohyōe resigning within the year. Gonnohyōe’s quiet resignation outraged the naval forces of Japan who were becoming increasingly concerned with the growing corruption, stagnation and transformism politics rotting the Japanese Republic.

It was also around this time that Saionji Kinmochi, a staunch monarchist and new leader of the Rikken Seiyūkai was introduced to replace Yamamoto. But his government proved just as unstable throughout 1923. Trying to tackle rebuilding projects and spending cuts, President Seiyūkai was accused of ambitions for an Imperial Restoration, an idea he had not promised during his political life. His honorary title of Duke and known friendship with the Imperial Pretender was notorious and, as a result, caused him to resign after two years of struggling in the political quagmire. Withdrawing from Public Life. 

The Conservative, Hara Takashi became the new Prime Minister, who immediately attempted sweeping reforms to try and adapt to the unchanging state of Japan. By this time (1924) much of Japan had come under the “Rule of Vigilantism”. That is to say, the unreliability of the government had given rise to unrecognized organised assistance of local projects, reconstructions and government. Most notably, the Samurai Clans that were still widely recognized among the rural population, the Yakuza across the outer cities, and the local military stations across the country. The proactiveness of these groups gradually drew sympathy towards them from the local populations, the further away from Tokyo one went, the less effective democratic rule had become. These years also saw the foundation of many of the leftist organisations that would go on to play a heavy hand in later politics; most notably parties like the Japan Farmer’s Party, Japan Labour-Farmer Party, Japan Masses Party, Enlightened People's Communist Party, Labour-Farmer Party, Proletarian Masses Party and penultimately the Japanese Communist Party. 

The lack of distinct overarching political faction heralded to the uncertain views on Communist principles and ideals was a constant problem. With some socialist parties advocating for a reformist approach, while others (Often shutdown in hours, days, weeks or months) advocated for violent, bloody revolution. Some focused themselves into specific regions, while others attempted to go national. Others came into existence from personal disputes with other Socialists or as radical departures from the Social Democratic Party, as in the case of the Japan Labour-Farmer Party. Because of this lack of unity; the Socialists rarely had any significant standing within the national assembly. It was only in the early ’30s that this paralytic division would become a danger capable of threatening the liberal democracy of Japan.

Hara Takashi’s government however hindered and halted this process for a time. Handpicking new administrators for anywhere, from principals to prefecture governments, the Hara administration reintroduced meritocracy across Japan. Takahashi’s newly assigned governors, bureaucratic leaders and so on were effective. Chosen not on loyalty, but the ability and these new appointments saw the government unite with the military branches too. With gradual projects to weaken the hold of the Yakuza and to restore trust in the public away from the Samurai class. Hara’s history as being born into the Samurai-class, but disowning it for the life of a civilian, had gained great public popularity. It gave him the trust of the traditionalists, from Samurai to Monarchist, but also unity among the people as a man who had wanted to experience life as a commoner. His Christian faith, however, also earned him allegations of being a liberal puppet to the West. 

His background of being a commoner, mixed with his hands-on approach to reforming the government, gave him the title ‘Commoner-King’. Hara had also extended bilateral relations extensively, signing preferential trade deals with the British, French and Dutch for ‘gateway’ cities. Aimed to help stimulate economic growth in their respective trade ports, which remained under Japanese governance. However, by 1926, Takashi had become increasingly unpopular both among his more-elite colleagues for unravelling previous understandings and destabilizing the stability of interparty politics. From the army for refusing several proposed expansion proposals and from the Yakuza for obvious reasons. In late 1927, Takahashi was shot dead while waiting at the local train station by a masked gunman, the motives or if the gunman was part of one of these groups is unknown.

But now the damage was done, and the different groups began to point fingers and accuse one another of political interference. The military accused the parties of corruption and killing Hara to prevent further reform, while numerous parties pointed fingers at the military, Yakuza and the growing power of the Unions. It was at this same time that American Ambassador Charles MacVeagh warned the new Rikken Seiyūkai Government under Saitō Makoto that, “Unless this prevailing disorder in the Republic stops, the United States may be reluctantly duty-bound to intervene to ensure the continuation of local law and order… ...The preservation of American interests within the Japanese Islands is also of tantamount importance”. The move was effectively an ultimatum; demanding that the Saitō Makoto Government must be respected and maintained or the United States would be obliged to deploy a significant military and administrative presence. Regardless of whether or not the Americans intended for this threat to be respected or not, it wasn’t. The note itself was responded to by harsh criticism from the military staff and public alike, who saw it as a colonial threat. Saitō Makoto’s government quickly became a symbol of western subservience and submission. His cabinet quickly, despite some resignations, therefore focused on curbing Western influences in the trade ports by passing legislation barring Non-Japanese Citizens from trading in Japan without a new state permit, which required a multitude of tests. 

His tenure also saw the breakout of the Imperial Military Academy Putsch, which had festered as a result of Makoto’s past service in the Navy. Several officers declared that the democratic government was no longer fit to maintain stability on behalf of the Japanese and declared a rebellion. The army stalled any response to the coup, with Politician and General Tanaka Giichi resigning along with several others resigning from Makoto’s cabinet. The Kenseikai Party also attempted to bargain for a coalition of Unity during this time, which quickly fell through as the situation escalated. The coup, however, rapidly bogged down with inaction and leadership disputes. Most regiments and officers, whom the putschists had hoped would flock to their side, instead stayed neutral in hopes of siding with whichever winning side became clear. With the Admiralty threatening to aid efforts to curb the army, the coup collapsed as the growing odds against the coupled to the neutral military forces snowballing into all-out side-taking against the uprising. In the face of causing total political collapse shortly after the coup, Saitō Makoto resigned and called fresh elections in a bid to satiate the opposition groups.

The fall of the Makoto Administration months into its existence, along with the military standoff however gave more than enough reason for the Americans to step in. In September 1928, the 1,000-Man United States Japan Garrison was reinforced by an additional 17,000 fresh American troops who promptly occupied many of Japan’s large nearby, unprotected coastal cities. America additionally declared that the Ryukyu islands, which had formerly been under de facto control by the US Navy, to be integrated as a Federated Overseas Territory under the Guam administration. The former Entente powers of France and Britain further contributed an additional combined force of 32,000 French, British, Indochinese, Australian, New Zealander and Indian troops towards the peaceful occupation. Who promptly declared that each of their respective trade cities was now placed under the protective administration of localised diplomatic commissions. Without a government at the time, and paralysed amidst the chaos, no resistance was made except the Japanese membership walking out of the League of Nations Emergency Meeting on the subject and declaring their termination of membership. However, by late 1929, all of the intervening powers along with the Japanese Republic had been hit by the Great Depression.

The Great Depression sent shockwaves through Japan throughout late 1929 and early 1930. It saw the Japanese Economy collapse inwards as a result of large international debts, the withdrawal of assets from international investors in urban areas, and major commercial interdependence on the United States. Once the crisis had taken place, it was only a matter of time before the withdrawal of the International garrison in Japan. In a bid to try and control the presence of industry, some local governments attempted early damage control through nationalization efforts in some of the cities more commercially dominated by foreign enterprises. But as the British, French and American forces began to withdraw through 1930, limiting their presence to their respective trade ports which were usually garrisoned with several hundred men; Japan was left effectively vulnerable to its own political infighting.

The newly-formed government as the successor to Makoto’s government was established following a new election that saw the Rikken Seiyūkai party elected into power on promises of government economic intervention, Takahashi Korekiyo became the new President. Based on the manifesto of further nationalization, unnecessary budget cuts and public projects based on Keynesian economic doctrines. This sparked international panic over a loss of commercial private assets in Japan, especially within the Western-Capitalist dominated cities. With a small and disloyal Japanese army as their only potential opposition, the Dutch opted to immediately dispatch a small intervention to Hirado. Where the country held a significant commercial interest in preserving its foreign investments there. The Dutch deployed, under their East Indies Fleet, 800 marines to secure the city, which they did so without opposition. Reacting with an outcry, the Japanese Republic failed to garner any international interest in the move by the Dutch. Except for notes by the British, Danish and Mexican governments to the Netherlands warning that further expansion into Japan would both stand to the detriment of the stability of both Japan and international diplomacy. The Korekiyo Administration was forced to negotiate with the Netherlands to save face. The resulting negotiation reaffirmed Japan’s nominal control over the city, with the Dutch established a commercial gubernatorial board to manage almost every practical aspect of the city. Aside from this incident, Korekiyo’s government was effective in helping to counter the Great Depression, stabilizing the situation to some degree and allowing Japan to restart its recovery

However, in March 1930, the country entered a new crisis. Press articles circulated a false government leak revealing that Soviet intelligence groups were active in Hokkaido, and helping to embolden, arm and teach Japanese Agrarian Communists in the North for a proletarian uprising in the country. The controversy of these rumours spread through the country like wildfire and triggered the July Crisis. Civil disorder quickly followed as both inspired communist groups began demonstrations accusing the government of misinformation. Counterrevolutionary organisations began their own demonstrations; accusing the leftist protests and rioters as using the entire leak as a staged opportunity to initiate a revolution. 

Following a series of riots in Hiroshima and Shunan, the local military declared a state of Martial Law in the municipalities without any government consent on the matter. The central Tokyo government immediately accused the military of attempting to utilize the situation to seize control of the country. Viewing the army as trying to take control of Japan, the paranoid naval staff relocated their naval forces to the city of Tobata, cutting off the military from any effective reach into Satsuma. 

Japanese commanders, under the recognized command of Kazushige Ugaki, officially declared that the State of Emergency was underway and that the military was placing the country under lockdown to re-stabilize the political and economic situation. The Navy and Army were now effectively in a standoff with each other; maritime forces assumed control over much of Satsuma. The navy lacked the land-power to take charge of the Japanese Republic while the Military Junta was unable to march for Tokyo without leaving themselves vulnerable to naval landings from Kyushu.

The local government in Ezo meanwhile, predicting the outright collapse of the assembly in Tokyo, declared an independent state to both preserve their government and people from the Communists and Militarists alike. With their only major population centres in the South, and with a strait to protect themselves from the fledgeling communist forces in Tohoku, Ezo’s fears did not come from below, but from above. The Soviet Union would forever keep Ezo out of any attempted engagements against the Peasant Republic for fear of reprisal.

At the same time of the collapse, President Takahashi (The elected leader of the Republic), was requesting international aid from the powers that had occupied many of the major Japanese cities. Arguing that the anti-military bindings of the Japanese peace treaty with the Entente following the Great War, along with the previous Western interventions within the country, obliged them to defend the government that had been established in Japan. While the French and British denied the request based on their own troubles, the Americans agreed to safeguard the Republic. Sending out their Chiba garrison to protect the capital and the surrounding area, the US sent a further 5,400 to reinforce this safe zone. But crisis-riddled America was both too internally hectic, politically volatile and militarily belt-tightened to execute any serious restoration campaign themselves. As a result, the elected government had little more jurisdiction than from Chiba to Gunma.

The regions of Japan throughout 1930 consequently were left to fend for themselves. As the military began to move North-East unimpeded, other interest groups began to leap onto the panic. In Shikoku, Adachi Kenzō gathered the support of the local governments to declare a pretender cabinet on the island. Accusing Takahashi and previous governments of weakness, corruption, inactivity and blind sightedness to Westerners and Private Businesses. Kenzō further intended to use his newly established cabinet to arrange a deal with the military to recognize his government as the rightful civilian administration, thus giving the Army Putsch greater legitimacy and ideological support. The military, however, outright refused the deal attempt by Adachi and declared him and his ultranationalists into being corrupt bureaucratic goons themselves. 

In December, the city of Nagoya came under the control of an alliance of politicians of aristocratic heritage led by Hiranuma Kiichirō which advocated for the restoration of a Military-Shogunate state. The fledgeling resurgent shogun government quickly began to spread in the jurisdiction as numerous regional governments influenced by the dominant Samurai landowning class that still entrenched itself through Japan compelled a great deal of central Japan into siding with the “Samurai Cabinet”. To restore order, end corruption, decadence, and bring back tradition to the reforming country. 

In February 1931, the government would lose control of the North too with the official proclamation of the Tohoku Peasant Republic. Provided with Soviet arms to help raise a People’s Guard, the local Socialist and Communist movements throughout the North began to attempt a series of local government coups across Japan. Crushed throughout the South, and meeting very little popularity in Ezo, the 1931 Communist Uprising found the most success in the defenceless north of the mainland. The municipalities had been brought to their knees through leftist demonstrations and rioting long before, and this organised effort merely centralized these forces. It was ultimately the Labour-Farmer Party under Oyama Ikou that sought the unification of the separate movements into the amalgamation that became the Peasant Republic. The early rule of this relatively moderate government was crucial in fanning the flames of potential counterrevolutionaries by settling fears of a radical rule.

The final party to throw their hat into the ring was the Imperial Pretender Government. Which arrived out of exile from British Osaka. Emperor Hirohito had gained the promise of allegiance from the local Kyoto government and surrounding municipalities, which were formerly under military rule. However, they and many military garrisons quickly swayed allegiance from the military command to the returning Showa government. Forming the Showa Regnum to the South of Tokyo. Which only further forced the weakened early governments to veer away from striking at the US-Protected Tokyo for fear of vulnerability from the British-supported Kyoto monarchy.

Left in tatters throughout this crisis. The Republic’s government fell through with yet another resigned cabinet. Resolved to safeguard the nation from chaos, the United States reorganized the Republic via the formation of a new Provisional Government decree. Defended by the extended American forces under the command of General Douglas MacArthur, a coalition government of Emergency Unity was formed with American pressure. The Rikken Seiyūkai, Kenseikai and Seiyūhontō parties formed a new administration, led by President Wakatsuki Reijirō (Kenseikai). The new administration focused on economically rebuilding Tokyo and the surrounding environs, removing the Gold Standard, halting inflation and cracking down on radicalist influences within the region.

Japan now finds itself at its final crossroads; the direction it takes is a decision only the hand of fate can make.