The roots of the Tohoku Peasant Republic begin with the foundation of the first Japanese Communist Party movement. The Farmer-Labour Party’s establishment on December 1, 1925, by the Japan Peasant Union, gave Japan its first proletarian political party. Despite media and establishment backlash, the party was tolerated as it took root in advocating for better representation of farmlands, appealing to the countryside population for support. Subsequent small socialist parties began to pop up through the mid-1920s, including the Japan Farmers Party, Japan Labour-Farmer Party, Japan Masses Party, Enlightened People's Communist Party, Labour-Farmer Party, Proletarian Masses Party and ultimately the Japanese Communist Party. The lack of distinct overarching political faction heralded to the uncertain views on Communist principles and ideals. With some parties advocating for a reformist approach, while others (Often shutdown in hours, days, weeks or months) advocating for violent, bloody revolution. Some focused themselves into specific regions, while others attempted to go national. Others came into existence from personal disputes with other Socialists or as radical departures from the Social Democratic Party, as in the case of the Japan Labour-Farmer Party.

This anarchic state of political unity for the Proletarian movement in Japan served much to the detriment of the cause. Throughout the 1920s, the Japanese communists were never able to gather a united bench in the Republic, instead of isolated and divided by party. This lack of influence combined with the naturally radical stance the party took caused many movements to be shut down, others to cause small scale insurrections due to the dissatisfaction of the status quo by members. Despite the lack of collectivity, the movement took deep root into Japan, particularly in the rural North, where many of the agrarian parties focused on their spread of thought.

The early 1930s were the most significant years for Japanese Communism. The Japanese Communist Party, the most ideologically aligned to Stalinism and Communism with Nationalist sentiments, had become closely intertwined with the Soviet Union, who was eager to extend their influence eastwards. From the start of the year, the Soviets had begun to aid the movement with arms and funding, a move that inevitably became known to the rest of Japanese Society. With the liberal government too insecure at that point to counter the situation, the army leapt on the outrage to declare a state of martial law in a bid to launch a coup. However, the move was seen through by the Republic, who refused to recognize the declaration of martial law by the new Military Pretender Government, resigning them to establishing rule in Chugoku.

As the events that would later become known as the Japanese Collapse of 1930, the Communists themselves were putting their efforts into taking root in their ideological hotbeds in fear of military or republican crackdowns. As the liberal government quickly lost all control of their territories not far from Tokyo, the Tokugawa Shogunate was reformed, seizing central Japan. Hokkaido likewise seceded to form a government focused on internal stability and securing their own democratic process. This move proved to be reasonable when the rest of Northern Japan declared the Peasant Republic.

The spark for the newfound proletarian republic was not made, however, by the Japanese Communist Party. Which was considered to be relatively niche at the time. But by the Labour-Farmer Party, which was quite popular in the general area among the population and was tightly organised under the recognised leadership of Oyama Ikou. The Japanese Communist Party, along with numerous other movements active in the region came to accept the formation of this proclaimed republic, aiming to utilize it as a platform to voice and forward their specific ideological agenda. This unity of parties gave the early TPR what is needed to establish their revolution, utilizing arms from the Japanese Communist Party and by locals, while also holding a moderate socialist position that helped to deter major local fear of Communist government among the traditional population, samurai class and spiritualists.

By mid-1931, the fires of the Japanese Collapse had simmered down into embers. As the situation cooled and territories became accepted by the contesting governments, the coalition of Communist groups began to bring about their cracks. Starting with the formation of the Japanese Trotskyist Movement under Kuroda Kan'ichi, which sparked outrage among the Pro-Stalin elements. More significant issues began to break out over the direction of the Communist government, with the Farmer Agrarian Parties pushing for dedication towards the aid and support of the small farming elements of their country. Individuals such Inejiro Asanuma meanwhile pushed for a more heavy-handed approach, advocating for ideas closely linked to Maoist and Stalinist doctrines, with increasing hostility towards Western Liberal Democracies and Fascism. Contrasting with these ideas of thought, moderates such as Oyama himself and Mosaburo Suzuki came to advocate a more pacifist stance, advocating internal development and focus, in turn helping to promote their ideology rather than bringing it to other regions of Japan forcefully.

Ultimately the movement is in deadlock. While initially united, the Tohoku Peasant Republic now finds itself with increasing friction among its constituent united parties over how to go about spreading Socialism to the rest of Japan and what exactly that Socialism constitutes. If the TPR is to get anywhere in a nest of hornets, it must choose a strategy before it becomes too late.