The Shogunate of Japan is a Military Shogunate centred around Central Japan. The faction focuses itself around the Shogun Tokugawa Iesato as their Head of Government and State. With absolute control over their movement, the Shogun in 1936 finds himself at a crossroads between trying to gain the upper hand through regaining the support of their old ally: France. Or instead gaining the favour of the Military Junta to unite towards their common, militarist ambition.

Backstory
The Japanese Shogunate was first founded over a millennia ago. Their ancient origins ties with their relationship with the Emperor. For centuries, the common theme of the Emperor-Shogun relationship was consistently dominated by the Shogun. With the Emperor filling little more than a ceremonial role, with some exceptional rulers from time to time.

However, by 1852, things were set to change. The Shogunate had seen Japan isolate itself, abandoning any chance of their ability to advance in tandem with the growing Western presence in Asia. So Japan found itself in a blind panic when Commodore Matthew Perry arrived from a country known as the United States of America. His expedition demanded the establishment of trade and commercial enterprise within Japan from America, an act that quickly also drew major pressure by the European world to open up. With a sickly Shogun in power and an indecisive elite, Japan opted to fully open itself to international trade, tempered by a heavy-handed control by the Shogunate over the spread of Western ideas and religion. This process of steady reform, trade and commerce gradually began to create a rift within Japan over its path. By 1868, many members of the Samurai class and Imperial Court expressing strong opposition to the modernization process of Japan.

The growing dissatisfaction eventually led to Tokugawa Yoshinobu, the ruling Shogun of the time, to agree to the growing reactionary demands to halt the growing Western influence. Initially beginning with virtually unnoticeable developments of coastal fortifications and military forces, and eventually leading to all-out opposition to the West, Shogunate Japan eventually cut itself off from Western trade once more. Except for its major coastal cities, which it opened as gateway cities. The reforms appeased the reactionary Imperial and Samurai clamourers but left Shogunate Japan once more in the rut of gradually weakening to the ever-advancing technological might of the outside world. The reforms, however, did not stop this dissidence entirely. Prompting the Boshin War, a brief but bloody war, in which the Emperor, backed by reactionary Samurai and Courtiers, attempted to force the dissolution of the Shogunate. The war saw involvement from the European powers, with the French funding, supporting and arming the Shogun’s forces and the British giving limited supply aid to the Imperial faction.

Despite not holding much patriotic backing, the Shogunate was able to prevail in the Boshin War. Primarily as a result of the apology of the Shogunate and compensation to the British for the Namamugi Incident. The Shogun generally respected French aid in the war, following Léon Roches defensive plans for the Japanese. Shogunate employment of militia conscription and material support from Europe aided their position greatly, eventually resulting in the quashing of the Imperial insurrection and the exile of the Imperial government out of disappointment and frustration at their losses. Being given haven in the United Kingdom.

Following decades saw Shogunate Japan slowly introduce newer and newer weaponry. Steamships, riflery, railroads slowly seeped into the partially isolated Japan. But at too slow of a rate, always one step behind the rest of the world. Japanese culture continued to remain staunchly isolationist and distrusting of Western ideas, which became viewed as decadent or subversive. These gave the perfect conditions for a Japan, once-more stagnated, that was ripe for a catastrophe of some sort once more. Despite several extremely reactionary rebellions in gateway cities since the Shogun’s reforms, things reached a fever pitch in 1917. When, during the heat of WW1 on the other side of the globe, riots began to break out in Chiba. Chiba had historically served as a gateway city. But was also doubling as a naval station for American operations against Central Powers colonies in the Far East, particularly Qingdao. While the naval presence was light, owing to the minuscule threat the German colonies presented, the forced foreign naval stationing at Chiba outraged much of Japan. The Japanese in the city, who still held a strong xenophobic attitude, eventually broke out into rioting in June 1917.

The Chiba Riots of June 1917 were particularly volatile. With poor management by law enforcement and large numbers leading to numerous western commercial properties in the city being attacked and destroyed. Hundreds of Western tradesmen, sailors or even Japanese citizens associated with Western commerce, were brutalized or killed. Most damning was the Storming of the Saratoga. In which hundreds of rioters swarmed the docked American Cruiser the in the late evening of the 24th of June. The sailors were ill-equipped for such a situation and could not get the ship moving before the vessel had been boarded. The desperate defence of the Saratoga and the eventual evacuation of its survivors by the USS Brooklyn drew massive media attention to the situation and sparked outrage against Shogunate Japan from the Entente powers. From this point on, the Shogunate was effectively doomed to involvement. The Storming of the Saratoga caused an international incident that obligated US President Woodrow Wilson, under public pressure, to launch a retaliatory strike against the Shogunate Government. A small expeditionary force was gathered up from American, Australian and British troops under Admiral Sir George Edwin Patey nicknamed the Patey Expedition. Which was deployed at Chiba, taking the city with little to no resistance. The Shogunate government, which was still largely unreformed, possessing an unprofessional military force, could do little to counter its capture.

During this time, the Shogunate refused to accept the Entente demands of fully surrendering their jurisdiction over Chiba, opting to fight the assault. With little to no contact with the Central Powers, Japan continued to be in open hostilities with the Entente even after World War 1 had ended. With the Entente expedition tripling in size as the years drew on, they soon began to seize more and more of the coastal territories around Tokyo, and even Tokyo itself. Before the war, a growing intellectual element within the Shogunate had begun pressuring for greater reforms and modelling on Western governing models in response to the slow ability of the Shogunate to modernise and adapt since the reform crisis decades before. With the progression of the War of the Shogunate, this opposition group rapidly spread in scale and reach as the population became increasingly frustrated by constant Shogunate defeats and unwillingness to agree to Entente conditional surrender demands. The situation eventually culminated in the Kyoto Revolution of 1918. The revolution was an umbrella movement of pretty much every group with a problem with the Shogun, ranging from the Imperials to the Socialists. Faced with total collapse and with advancing Entente marine divisions, the Shogunate agreed to a deal with the Entente. 

The Tokyo Agreement saw all of the civil and military staff of the Shogunate Government exhumed of any responsibility for the conflict and walked free without any prosecution. Chiba was to become an Allied freeport for British, French and American operations in the region, governed by a Western International Commission. With the Shogunate Government recognizing the self-proclaimed Japanese Republic as the legitimate government of the country. With that, the Shogunate ended.

Following decades saw a period of massive change and uncertainty for Japan under their new liberal republic. Despite constant political instability, the republic was generally supported by the general public. With little popular support for a Shogunate restoration. Things changed, however, with the arrival of the 1930s. Japan at the time was more unstable than at most other points, with staunch American interventionism and general public discontent with the status quo. This had begun to shift a lot of the outlying regions of Japan, mostly the North and South in favour of more radical positions. The military was also very active, using their political influence to attempt to compete with the other and advance their own goals for Japanese strength and supremacy. This growing sentiment also gave spark to new fascist movements inspired by those that had taken root in Europe.

In March 1930, things came to a head, when the news broke out that Soviet elements were arming and assisting dissident Socialist groups in the North of Japan. The general concern and fear that followed among the more authoritarian influences in the country sparked a total crisis. With the army declaring a state of martial law as a result of angered protests in Hiroshima and Shunan over the situation of Japan. The Liberal Government did not recognize the declaration of martial law by the regional generals, accusing the military of attempting to carry out a coup from the South. This situation then prompted the Navy to independently collect their forces on the island of Satsuma, outraged by the army and their effort to gain dominance over Japan. With widespread communist revolt in Northern Japan, the island of Hokkaido formed a new government to act independently under the popular Social Democratic Party in the region. Forming the Republic of Ezo. The United States meanwhile focused on protecting the Tokyo government, forming a defensive safe zone and enforcing continued liberal jurisdiction over the area. However, this left a significant area of Japan effectively lawless. Beyond the force projection of the Japanese Republic and in jeopardy of conquest by the newfound army’s military junta, the fascists in Shikoku or the Communists from the North.

This era, conveniently, was also mostly rural lands dominated by the Samurai-class. Most of which were concerned about all revolutionary groups. A council of politicians active in the region was hastily gathered, led by Hiranuma Kiichirō, opposed to the current liberal government and their other options, they invited Tokugawa Iesato, the rightful claimant to the position of Shogun, to establish a new government. Aiming to unite Japan over a conservative government dominated by the elitist Samurai clans. Much of the rest of the central Japanese region was already either aligned with the Samurai-class or governed by politicians of Samurai heritage, causing countless to defect to their promises of protection and change. A restoration of Japanese pride, independence and tradition, while also retaining their openness to modernization and modesty. Within a couple of months, Central Japan was mostly under the control of the Samurai Cabinet. Despite having some governments supporting them from the north, the entirety of the North quickly fell to a newly declared Communist State from the ashes of their rioting and disobedience. Forming the Japanese Peasant Republic. More communist uprisings began in Central Japan, in a bid to join the Agrarian communist movement to the north, but due to their lesser popularity and the mobilising Samurai militias, they were crushed without hesitation. The return of the Shogunate sparked another restoration. When the Imperial family arrived from their exile in Britain via Osaka, arriving in Kyoto and prompting the local administration and several surrounding municipalities to defect and swear their loyalty to the returned Emperor.

Left effectively between a rock, a hard place, an incinerator and spike, the Shogunate now finds itself in a difficult position. Tokugawa Iesato is the recognized leader but has a very little actual passionate following. Many other Samurai clans are also eager to use the fresh start for the Shogunate as a jumping board to install a new ruling Shogun of their choosing. Much of the Samurai elite are also split on their beliefs. Some, especially those born to lands under the control of opposing factions, are desperate to force the Shogunate to take action to liberate their homelands from hostile control before the local elite families are completely decimated or indoctrinated, seeking to make a pact with the military due to common ground. Others seek a more pragmatic and diplomatic approach, hoping to consolidate their strength for an inevitable declaration of war and invasion of their current territories, promoting renewed ties with France and reconciliation with the Imperial family. Whichever route prevails, the other faction is sure to be alerted and deeply concerned out of fear for the future of the Shogunate. With new elections in the Japanese Republic approaching, Shikoku posturing becoming increasingly confident, and growing strength under the communists to the North, the Shogunate must make a decision, or they may find themselves under attack from all sides.